That's where we are.
And now we are gonna hop into
section five, technical writing.
This first bit here is just we had
a bunch of stuff on communication.
How does that apply to
specifically technical writing?
Everything I told you before
generally applies to meetings,
public speaking, writing emails,
writing memos, writing slide decks.
Here I'm going to be focused on the act
of actually mostly just writing docs,
but this could apply to
slide decks as well.
And I say that as well because when
I was at Microsoft, everything,
everything was a slide deck.
We didn't write very many Word docs.
We generally, even when we weren't
gonna present it to anybody,
we wrote it in a slide deck and
sent it to them.
That was just the culture.
And then I got to Stripe, and Stripe
almost has a rule against slide decks.
So everything was a doc,
we would get into meetings and
we would look at docs together.
I mean they're both extremes,
that spectrum.
I think I prefer the docs personally
because I was really good at going
through, I actually bought an iPad just so
I could sit on my couch and
read docs, there's so many docs to read.
I got a lot of context
really quickly with that.
But from a visual perspective,
it's lacking, right?
Because putting things into a slide
deck gets people in a visual mindset and
this will put like a lot of visual aids
in there, which I think is helpful.
So, I don't know, it's a trade-off.
Both of them have their downfalls.
Snowflake is a good mix of both.
So I think that actually works out fairly
well
>> Do you have an opinion about
[CROSSTALK] well, scope it out [LAUGH] And
if you're Edward Tufte, this one's easy.
But is there a format that you prefer or
you'd recommend, culturally there's
preferred formats, but long forms are not
going to go into slides very well.
And documents are not going
to encourage terseness.
Do you did you have a set of practices to
help yourself you know, keep the format
from infringing the information
that you wanted to communicate?
>> Yeah, it's a good question.
I mean, my high-level principle,
is I just want to get stuff done.
I'm really excited to build things,
and I'm really not excited to
spend time arguing about things
that I think I'm right on.
Particularly with, if I feel like I'm
going to something that I'm not going to
learn something, I kind of go in
there like a bull and just say,
either we're going to do this or
I'm going to go around you, right?
[LAUGH] So given that,
I generally cater strongly to the audience
that I'm going to be speaking to.
And so, executives do really
well with slide decks, right?
Architects love documents.
And so I kind of try to cater my
communication to the audience.
It's just kind of like I'm very
much a pragmatist in the sense of,
I don't care how I get it done, but
I'm just going to get it done because
I'm really excited to get it done.
If you'd asked me like just purely
on preference, I like writing docs,
I think I'm better at it.
I think I write better, and
I still use a lot of visuals on my doc.
So I'll actually have sections on
diagramming here of how I think you
can make your docs more
appealing to a visual crowd.
I think that is probably
the best way to do it.
I love the format of having
a one-pager proposal for
something, having maybe
a six-pager ish product spec, and
then if you need something having a 15,
20 pager technical analysis,
architecting kind of doc, right?
And that kind of minimum context,
medium context, massive context.
I think that kind of information
hierarchy works really well.
If I was running a company,
that's generally how I would do it.
Whoever proposes it writes the one-pager.
Whoever PMs it writes the 6 pager and
whoever architects writes the 20-pager.
And sometimes in there,
if gathering a company around
a slide deck makes sense,
I will use that tool when I need it.
But you have to kind of think of these
docs not in terms of just when I'm going
to be presenting to it, but
it's actually your ability to influence
people when you're not there.
So if you write a really good doc and
it gets sent on to someone
that you don't know,
that's you extending your influence beyond
just your immediate ring of influence.
That artifact carries power beyond you.
Now some of you are at startups and beyond
you is literally the person next to you.
But me at Microsoft,
I found out people in totally disparate
parts of the organization were reading
my docs and they were basing their own
processes on stuff that I had written.
I had no idea.
Right?
And so I was able to have influence
without even cognition, right,
that's real power, almost,
no, I'm just kidding [LAUGH].
But it is,
it's cool to have that kind of influence.
Okay I will say that I don't actually,
as much as I'm talking about writing,
as much as I think about writing,
I actually don't really like it.
It's not like I'm pumped to get up and
I'm like,
I'm gonna get into Google Docs today.
I do not do that, right?
And sometimes I even dread it sometimes,
right?
But I do recognize that it is my lever for
influence.
So, I'm just gonna throw that out there.
If you feel the same way,
I'm just validating that like
it can be okay to feel a little
bit of dread at like, I'm going to
have to write another long doc today.
But yeah, it is.
It's by far your way to be most effective.
And like I'm saying, this is a PMing
course, but if you're in QA,
if you are in production, if you
are in Customer Service, if you're in
customer service and like a bug keeps
happening to all of your customers,
write a doc about it and
send it to the engineering org, right?
That's, your ability to change how
stuff happens over there, right?
It's not enough to just talk about,
it's not enough to complain about it.
Having it written down allows it
to be shared and shared again.
Cool.
So, who is reading your email,
memo, slide deck?
Think about it.
Sometimes even write it.
And this actually has been
really useful for me.
I wrote a really long strategy doc.
I was really proud of it and
I was writing it for
internal people that were
already bought into my vision.
And when I went to my boss and
we talked about it,
this was several companies ago,
they were, why did you write this?
Like none of this makes any sense to
like the CEO and stuff like that,
I was like, that's because I
wasn't writing it for them.
Like I was writing this for
internal stakeholders, and
like having that discussion really
quickly realized that like,
we had way different ideas
of what this doc was for.
And the answer is we were both right.
Both of those docs were super necessary.
But those mismatched expectations
meant that, the wrong doc got
written whenever we thought
the other doc was gonna get written.
So the end result is that we
ended up writing another doc and
then we had two docs, right?
So getting that right, making sure that
you are matching your audience, critical.
Yeah.
You write differently for internal
stakeholders versus external stakeholders.
I haven't said this anywhere in here, but
like be really careful around initialisms,
acronyms, code names.
If you don't think it's going to be
obvious to everybody writing that doc,
don't use it, just spell it out.
One thing that Stripe did that
actually was every company has like,
we have an acronym database where
you can look up anything, and
it's never up to date, except Stripe's.
Stripe did a really good job of keeping
all of theirs up to date, but it was so
old and so long that every initialism
had at least four or five entries for
as like, here's what CTA means,
and there was like nine entries.
So good luck figuring it out.
In other words, you are driving
understanding, you are optimizing for
the understanding of readers, not for
how fast you can write the doc.
So always optimize for the reader.
And I'm giving you a bunch of things here.
Some docs are just written
to be shared quickly, right?
Like if you're taking
minutes from a meeting,
don't overthink it and
turn it into this wonderful bit of prose.
Write quickly.
Some of those actually are optimized
to be written quickly, and are just,
reminders of what stuff that happens.
Or, if you're like writing like
a half-page email to that's just going to
one of your colleagues,
write it fast, right?
Value your time with their time
in those particular cases.
So make sure you're focusing on a reader,
therefore you don't underwrite and
therefore you don't overwrite,
you want to be right there in
that sweet spot in the middle.
And like we're going to like we're
getting back in here to the say less, but
let me just assure you that zero percent
of readers read every word in your doc or
your email, or your slide deck.
0%.
No one reads every word.
Everybody skims.
Really interested people like will pause
frequently on what they're skimming for,
but they're still skimming, and
uninterested people might open the doc and
then close it again.
Right?
Nobody reads your entire doc.
I venture to say you are not going to
read your entire doc later, right?
So ruthlessly cut unnecessary stuff
from your doc because you run the risks
then of people skimming over the stuff
that you actually want them to read.
I'll talk about how to anchor your doc
in different ways to get people to read
the parts that you want them to read, but
just recognize, you're basically
in a race against the clock.
And the clock is their attention span,
right?
So make sure you are saying
the correct things and
you're cutting out anything
that doesn't need to be read.
Sometimes you have 15 seconds to talk
to your reader, sometimes you have
five minutes, extremely rarely do you have
more than five minutes to talk to your,
whoever's reading your particular doc.
So, optimize for that.
Yeah.
Rarely will it take
more than five minutes.
One to two minutes is
a pretty engaged reader.
And, like, 30 seconds to a minute
is probably your average reader.
They're going to skim.
They're going to look for
stuff that's interesting to them.
They'll read blurbs here and there.
And then they are done.
And reading another doc,
to reading another doc right?
So respect their time.
Every place I've gone I've had a couple of
like really trusted PMs that I work with
or engineering managers or
engineers or whatever, and
I've written some important doc,
very quickly I'll just send them like, and
I'll ask specifically is like,
am I capturing what we're working on here?
And I'll usually get pretty quick feedback
of like, do you agree with the content?
Do you agree with how this is formatted?
Does this communicate pretty well?
And when you find those people that are
like, you both value what they think, and
they will give you ruthless feedback,
worth their weight in gold, right?
Like I was,
I was talking about Maggie earlier.
That's literally why I took Maggie
from Microsoft to Stripe with me,
because she's phenomenal at that.
She's probably one of the, she's probably
the best person at that that I know.
And I tried to take her to Snowflake,
didn't work.
[LAUGH] So finding someone like that,
some sort of trusted partner for
me, at Snowflake now it's
my engineering manager.
I send everything to him quickly,
he once-overs it,
my boss is really awesome at it too.
And getting some quick feedback on that.
Having a culture of commenting
on docs is helpful as well.
So like Snowflake is
really good about this.
Everyone will just highlight something,
leave a comment in it.
And then there's always an appendix at
the bottom of every Snowflake doc of just
long-form comments from people.
That was new to me and
I actually quite liked that.
So in order to get that kind of feedback
from other people and get useful feedback
and thoughtful feedback from people,
you need to be a useful partner for them.
So, that's sort of some sort
of reciprocation there so
getting some sort of eye for it.
And really that really involves
moving beyond yourself and
not saying things just to say things
because we all know people that say things
just to hear the sound of their own voice.
But actually trying to give them concrete
steps to accomplishing their goals,
that's the mark of a good editor or
a good comment or feedback provider.
So those two things I think will
yield good feedback quickly.